# SDK-NodeJs

Recast.AI official SDK in NodeJs.

## Synospis

This module is a NodeJs interface to the [Recast.AI](https://recast.ai) API. It allows you to make request to your bots

## Installation

### Via NPM

From [npmjs.org](https://npmjs.com/):

```bash
npm install 'recastai'
```

From [github.com](https://github.com/):

```bash
npm install 'https://github.com/RecastAI/SDK-NodeJs.git'
```

## Usage

### Module

```javascript
import * as recast from 'recastai'

const CLIENT = new recast.Client(YOUR_TOKEN)

CLIENT.textRequest(YOUR_TEXT, (response) => {
  if (response.intent() === YOUR_INTENT) {
    // Do your code...
  }
})
```

You can find more examples in the `example/` folder.

## Specs

### Classes

This module contains 5 main classes, as follows:

* Client is the client allowing you to make requests.
* Response contains the response from [Recast.AI](https://recast.ai).
* Sentence represents a sentence of the response.
* Entity represents an entity found by Recast.AI in your user's input.
* RecastError is the error thrown by the module.

Don't hesitate to dive into the code, it's commented ;)

### class Client

The Recast.AI Client can be instanciated with a token and provides the two following methods:

* textRequest(text, callback, options = {}) *Performs a text request*
* fileRequest(file, callback, options = {}) *Performs a voice file request*

*Accepted options are :token, to override the default token provided at initialization*

```javascript
import * as recast from 'recastai'

// Create a new Client
const CLIENT = new recast.Client(YOUR_TOKEN)

// Performs a text request on Recast.AI
CLIENT.textRequest('Hello World!', (response) => {
  // Do your code...
})

// Performs a voice file request on Recast.AI with the optional token
CLIENT.fileRequest('myfile.wav', (response) => {
  // Do your code
}, { token: ANOTHER_TOKEN })
```

### class Response

The Recast.AI Response is generated after a call with the two previous methods and contains the following methods:
* sentence(\*)  *Returns the first detected sentence*
* get(name)     *Returns the first entity matching -name-*
* all(name)     *Returns all the entities matching -name-*
* intent(\*)    *Returns the first matched intent*

In addition, you can access each of these attributes:
* raw *The raw unparsed response*
* source *The source sentence Recast.AI processed*
* intents *All the matched intents*
* sentences *All the detected sentences*
* version *The version of the JSON*
* timestamp *The timestamp at the end of the processing*
* status *The status of the response*

```javascript
CLIENT.textRequest('Give me a recipe with asparagus. And tomatoes', (response) => {
    // Get the first sentence, aka 'Give me some recipe with asparagus'
    let firstSentence = response.sentence()

    // If the first intent matched is 'recipe'...
    if (response.intent() === 'recipe') {
      // ... get all the entities matching 'ingredient'
      let ingredients = response.all('ingredient')

      // ...
    }
    console.log(`This request has been filled at ${response.timestamp}`)
  })
```

### class Sentence

The Recast.AI Sentence is generated by the Recast.AI Response constructor and provides the following attributes:

* source *The source of the sentence*
* type *The type of the sentence*
* action *The action of the sentence*
* agent *The agent of the sentence*
* polarity *The polarity (negation or not) of the sentence*
* entities *All the entities detected in the sentence*

```javascript
CLIENT.textRequest('Tell me a joke.', (response) => {
    // Get the first sentence
    let sentence = response.sentence()

    if (sentence.action === 'tell' && sentence.polarity === 'positive') {
      // Tell a joke...
    }
  })
```

### class Entity

The Recast.AI Entity is generated by the Recast.AI Sentence constructor and provides the following attributes:

* name *The name of the entity*
* raw *The raw text on which the entity was detected*

In addition to this method, more attributes are generated depending of the nature of the entity, which can be one of the following:

* hex
* value
* deg
* formated
* lng
* lat
* unit
* code
* person
* number
* gender
* next
* grain
* order

```javascript
CLIENT.textRequest('What can I cook with salmon ?', (response) => {

    if (response.intent() === 'recipe') {
      // Get the ingredient
      let ingredient = response.get('ingredient')

      console.log('You asked me for a recipe with ${ingredient.value}')
      // 'You asked me for a recipe with salmon'
    }
  })
```

### class RecastError

The Recast.AI Error is thrown when receiving an non-200 response from Recast.AI.

As it inherits from Error, it implements the default Error methods.

## More

You can view the whole API reference at [man.recast.ai](https://man.recast.ai).


## Author

Jérôme Houdan, jerome.houdan@recast.ai

You can follow us on Twitter at [@recastai](https://twitter.com/recastai) for updates and releases.

## License

Copyright (c) [2016] [Recast.AI](https://recast.ai)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
